# OIBSIP
Oasis InfoByte Python Programming Project Repository

This repo contains three pyhton projects.

#1 BMI (Body Mass Index Calculator)

Project Description
------------------
The "main.py" calculates the body mass index of the user provided it has received user weight and height input data.

The program is modularised so that all inputs have their function, the BMI calculator has its function and also the classification of the user in the BMI chart based on the BMI calculator results has its function.
When the program is executed:
  1. The user is asked to enter their name
  2. The user is then asked to enter their weight in Kilograms
  3. The user is then asked to enter their height in meters
    N.B - The program is created in such a way that the user is asked to enter height and weight values within a reasonable range and that range is based on the world records of the highest and lowest data scored for both height and weight. Any data outside this range is deemed incorrect and the user is prompted to enter the correct data.
  4. The BMI calculator function calculates the BMI
  5. The result is then displayed along with the name in a capitalized form to add a personal and formal touch, the BMI value, and the category into which the user is placed based on their BMI.


*** This program is completely basic with no GUI and is entirely command-line based.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The "main_bmi_ui.py" is the GUI version of the main.py program described above.
The program is a modified version of main.py where a GUI feature is added to the program with the help of the tkinter and ttkbootstrap libraries
When the program is executed:
  1. A window is generated with input fields for the name, weight and height data of the person
  2. As long as the user provides a value of weight and height, when the user clicks the "Calculate BMI" button, a result is provided showing the BMI result and the corresponding category.
  3. If there is an error, generated by a user entering an unappropriate data, An error messagebox pops up alerting the user to enter the right data.



****************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************



#2 Simple Weather App

Project Description
------------------
The "cl_weather_app.py" returns the temperature, humidity and general weather pattern provided it has received the name of the city as an input.

The Weather App has two functions, one which gets the necessaty data for the the weather of the city we want to know about using an API key from 'openweathermap'. The weather data is provided in the form of a json data and the other function is a module which takes input from the user to retrieve the city name, whose weather we want to know about and returns the temperature, humidity and weather pattern in a user friendly format.
When the program is executed:
  1. The user is asked to enter the name
  2. The exctracted json data will appear as it is (used for debugging and can be commented)
  3. Then, the temperature, humidity and weather pattern will be displayed for that particular city in a readable format.
    N.B - The program is created in such a way that the user is asked to enter the correct spelling of a city regardless of its format. That means even if it's wrriten as a mixture of capital and small letter, but the spelling is correct, the program still works and the appropriatley capitalized form of the city will be dispayed in the output. 
  4. If incorrect name of a city is entered , it will come up with a city not found error message.

*** This program is completely basic with no GUI and is entirely command-line based.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The "weather_app_gui.py" is the GUI version of the cl_weather_app.py program described above.
The program is a modified version of cl_weather_app.py where a GUI feature is added to the program with the help of the tkinter and ttkbootstrap libraries
When the program is executed:
  1. A window is generated with an input fields for the name of the desired location
  2. As long as the user provides a correctly spelled location name, when the user clicks the "Fetch Weather" button, a result is provided showing the real time weather of the given location in terms of temperature, humidity and weather pattern.
  3. If there is an error, generated by a user entering an unappropriate data, or network error when fetching data, An error shows up saying that the city was not found or there was an error fetching data.



******************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************



#3 Simple Voice Assistant

Project Description
------------------
The "voice_assistant_cl.py" is a command-line program that generates a Goggle Speech Recognition Service based voice assitant which can reply to basic greeting queries, along with date and time inquireis.

The program has five functions,
- A function to get the current date
- A function to get the current system time (the device being used)
- A function to convert text to speech for the voice assistant
- A function that listens to the user's voice input, improve accuracy of the speech, recogonizes the speech and converts it into text that can be used as a query text
- A main function that handles the user queries

When the program is executed:
  1. The voice assistant greets the user and listens for a recognizable speech
  2. If the user asks one of the queries listed in the program, the voice assistant replies with the appropriate pre-arranged answer.
  3. If the user asks for date and time, the current date and time is replied back to the user in real-time by the voice assistant.
    N.B-
* Current Accpetable queries by the user
     - hello
     - what is your name?
     - are you real?
     - tell me the date
     - tell me the time
     - exit
  
  5. If a query not recogonized by the assistant is entered, the voice assistant will kindly request that you repeat what you said because it doesn't understand your current query. It will continue to do so until the user queries the assistant with the above listed acceptable voice queries.

*** This program is completely basic with no GUI and is entirely command-line based.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



